#Project_overview

This Data Analysis Project aims to provide insights into the best customers, best artists, most popular music Genre and Bands 
and maximim purchases by customers with their names. By analyzing various aspects of the music database, we seek to identify 
trends, make data-driven recommendationsand gain a deeper understanding of the Music store Sales

#Data Sources

Music Store Data: The primary data set used for the analysis is the "music store data .zip" file, containg all the neccesary csv files for the data analysis.
The dataset contains several CSV files related to different aspects of the music store. Here is a brief description of each file based on typical naming conventions:

album.csv: Details of albums.
album2.csv: Additional details or a different version of album data.
artist.csv: Details of artists.
customer.csv: Customer information.
employee.csv: Employee information.
genre.csv: Genres of music.
invoice.csv: Invoices of sales.
invoice_line.csv: Detailed line items within each invoice.
media_type.csv: Types of media formats.
playlist.csv: Playlists information.
playlist_track.csv: Tracks within playlists.
track.csv: Details of individual tracks.
schema_diagram.png: Schema diagram of the database.
To provide specific insights, I'll load the relevant CSV files and perform some analysis. Let's start by examining the structure and a few records from each CSV file. ​

#Tools

-  Excel - Data Cleaning 
- Postgresql server - Data Analysis 

#Data Cleaning/Preperation

In the initial daqta preperation phase, we performed the following tasks:

  1. Data loading and inspection
  2. Handling missing values
  3. Data cleaning and formatting

#Exploratory Darta Analysis

EDA involved exploring the music store data to answer key questions such as:

  1) Find how much amount apent by each customer on artist
  2) We want to find out the most popular music Genre for each country
  3) Find the customer that has spent the most on the music for each country along with the country name
  4)Top artists with track count of op 10 rock bands
  5) Artists who have written rock music in our data set
  6) All the customers who listens to rock music in alphabetical order

#Data Analysis

Include some intesting code/features worked with

```sql
SELECT
    DATE_TRUNC('month', sale_date) AS month,
    COUNT(*) AS total_sales
FROM
    sales
GROUP BY
    month
ORDER BY
    month;
```

#results/Findings

   - Total amount spent by each customer on tracks by each artist.
   - Most popular genre in each country by track count.
   - Customer who spent the most on music in each country.
   - Top 10 rock artists by number of tracks.
   - List of artists who have produced rock music.
   - Alphabetically sorted list of customers who purchased rock tracks.The analysis results are summarized as follows:
